README.md, before:

<!-- include logo svg in this markdown -->
<!-- <p align="center">
    <img src="rgl-logo.png" width="400"/>
</p> -->

# RGL: A Graph-Centric, Modular Framework for Efficient Retrieval-Augmented Generation on Graphs

RGL is a **friendly and efficient Retrieval-Augmented Generation on Graphs (RAG on Graph) library** for AI researchers, providing seamless integration with **DGL** and **PyG** while offering high-performance graph retrieval algorithms, many of which are optimized in **C++** for efficiency. 

## Features  
✅ **Seamless Integration** – Works smoothly with **DGL** and **PyG**  
⚡ **Optimized Performance** – C++-backed retrieval algorithms for speed  
🧠 **AI-Focused** – Tailored for **GraphRAG** research and applications  
🔗 **Scalability** – Handles large-scale graphs with ease  

## Homepage, Documentation and Paper

- Homepage: https://github.com/PyRGL/rgl
- Documentation: https://rgl.readthedocs.io
- Paper Access: [*RGL: A Graph-Centric, Modular Framework for Efficient Retrieval-Augmented Generation on Graphs*](https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.19314)


## Requirements

- DGL: https://www.dgl.ai/pages/start.html
- PyG (Optional): https://pytorch-geometric.readthedocs.io/en/latest/install/installation.html

## Installation

```bash
pip install rgl
```

## Compile C++ libraries (Optional)

```bash
cd clibs
./build_linux.sh
```

## Toy Example
``` python
from sklearn.feature_extraction.text import CountVectorizer
from rgl.utils import llm_utils
from rgl.node_retrieval.vector_search import VectorSearchEngine
from rgl.graph_retrieval.retrieve import retrieve

# Define nodes.
node_data = [
    {"title": "Deep Learning for Graph Data", "classes": "AI, ML"},
    {"title": "Introduction to Neural Networks", "classes": "ML"},
    {"title": "Graph Neural Networks in Practice", "classes": "ML, Graph"},
    {"title": "Advanced Topics in Machine Learning", "classes": "ML"},
    {"title": "Reinforcement Learning in Robotics", "classes": "Robotics, ML"},
    {"title": "Large Language Models and Reasoning", "classes": "AI, NLP"},
    {"title": "Bayesian Methods in Deep Learning", "classes": "ML, Bayesian"},
    {"title": "Computer Vision for Autonomous Vehicles", "classes": "CV, AI, Robotics"},
]

# Define edges. The two lists represent connections: the first list is the source nodes and the second list is the destination nodes.
edges = [
    [1, 1, 1, 1, 0, 0, 2, 2, 3, 3, 4, 5, 6],
    [0, 2, 3, 6, 2, 3, 3, 4, 6, 7, 7, 7, 0],
]

# Convert to an undirected graph by adding reversed edges.
src, dst = edges
src, dst = src + dst, dst + src

# Prepare title features and initialize vector search engine.
titles = [paper["title"] for paper in node_data]
vectorizer = CountVectorizer()
paper_feats = vectorizer.fit_transform(titles).toarray()
vector_search_engine = VectorSearchEngine(paper_feats)

# Input query paper title and retrieve similar papers (anchors).
query_paper_title = "Vision Transformers for Traffic Sign Recognition"
query_vector = vectorizer.transform([query_paper_title]).toarray()
retrieved_indices = vector_search_engine.search(query_vector, k=3)[0][0]
anchors = [node_data[idx] for idx in retrieved_indices]

# Retrieve subgraph from anchors.
anchor_indices = [node_data.index(paper) for paper in anchors]
subgraph_nodes = retrieve(src, dst, anchor_indices)

# Construct prompt with the query title and relevant paper information.
relevant_paper_str = "\n".join(
    [f"Title: {node_data[node]['title']}, Classes: {node_data[node]['classes']}" for node in subgraph_nodes]
)
prompt = (
    "Given the paper title: '{}'\n\n"
    "And relevant paper information:\n{}\n\n"
    "List the classes that are most relevant to the query paper."
).format(query_paper_title, relevant_paper_str)
print("\n=== Prompt Sent to Model ===\n{}".format(prompt))

# Query the LLM to obtain paper classification output.
output = llm_utils.chat_openai(prompt, model="gpt-4o-mini")
print("\n=== RAG Paper Classification Output ===\n {}".format(output))
```

Output:
```
=== Prompt Sent to Model ===
Given the paper title: 'Vision Transformers for Traffic Sign Recognition'

And relevant paper information:
Title: Graph Neural Networks in Practice, Classes: ML, Graph
Title: Deep Learning for Graph Data, Classes: AI, ML
Title: Advanced Topics in Machine Learning, Classes: ML
Title: Computer Vision for Autonomous Vehicles, Classes: CV, AI, Robotics

List the classes that are most relevant to the query paper.

=== RAG Paper Classification Output ===
 The classes that are most relevant to the query paper 'Vision Transformers for Traffic Sign Recognition' are:

1. Computer Vision (CV)
2. Artificial Intelligence (AI)
3. Machine Learning (ML)

These classes are particularly relevant because traffic sign recognition is a task within the domain of computer vision and typically involves machine learning techniques, including advanced models like Vision Transformers.
```

## Demo

We recommend you to get started with some demo.

### Basic Operations

+ [RGL Dataset Loading](demo/demo_load_rgl_dataset.py)
+ [RGL Graph Retrieval](demo/demo_retrieval.py)

### Applications

+ [Abstract generation via RGL](demo/demo_rag_on_graph_abstract_generation.py)
+ [Paper classification via RGL](demo/demo_rag_on_graph_paper_classification.py)

## Cite

```
@misc{li2025rglgraphcentricmodularframework,
      title={RGL: A Graph-Centric, Modular Framework for Efficient Retrieval-Augmented Generation on Graphs}, 
      author={Yuan Li and Jun Hu and Jiaxin Jiang and Zemin Liu and Bryan Hooi and Bingsheng He},
      year={2025},
      eprint={2503.19314},
      archivePrefix={arXiv},
      primaryClass={cs.IR},
      url={https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.19314}, 
}
```

Commit message:

add gradio UI for demo

README.md, after:

<!-- include logo svg in this markdown -->
<!-- <p align="center">
    <img src="rgl-logo.png" width="400"/>
</p> -->

# RGL: A Graph-Centric, Modular Framework for Efficient Retrieval-Augmented Generation on Graphs

RGL is a **friendly and efficient Retrieval-Augmented Generation on Graphs (RAG on Graph) library** for AI researchers, providing seamless integration with **DGL** and **PyG** while offering high-performance graph retrieval algorithms, many of which are optimized in **C++** for efficiency. 

## Features  
✅ **Seamless Integration** – Works smoothly with **DGL** and **PyG**  
⚡ **Optimized Performance** – C++-backed retrieval algorithms for speed  
🧠 **AI-Focused** – Tailored for **GraphRAG** research and applications  
🔗 **Scalability** – Handles large-scale graphs with ease  

## Homepage, Documentation and Paper

- Homepage: https://github.com/PyRGL/rgl
- Documentation: https://rgl.readthedocs.io
- Paper Access: [*RGL: A Graph-Centric, Modular Framework for Efficient Retrieval-Augmented Generation on Graphs*](https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.19314)


## Requirements

- DGL: https://www.dgl.ai/pages/start.html
- PyG (Optional): https://pytorch-geometric.readthedocs.io/en/latest/install/installation.html

## Installation

```bash
pip install rgl
```

## Compile C++ libraries (Optional)

```bash
cd clibs
./build_linux.sh
```

## Toy Example
``` python
from sklearn.feature_extraction.text import CountVectorizer
from rgl.utils import llm_utils
from rgl.node_retrieval.vector_search import VectorSearchEngine
from rgl.graph_retrieval.retrieve import retrieve

# Define nodes.
node_data = [
    {"title": "Deep Learning for Graph Data", "classes": "AI, ML"},
    {"title": "Introduction to Neural Networks", "classes": "ML"},
    {"title": "Graph Neural Networks in Practice", "classes": "ML, Graph"},
    {"title": "Advanced Topics in Machine Learning", "classes": "ML"},
    {"title": "Reinforcement Learning in Robotics", "classes": "Robotics, ML"},
    {"title": "Large Language Models and Reasoning", "classes": "AI, NLP"},
    {"title": "Bayesian Methods in Deep Learning", "classes": "ML, Bayesian"},
    {"title": "Computer Vision for Autonomous Vehicles", "classes": "CV, AI, Robotics"},
]

# Define edges. The two lists represent connections: the first list is the source nodes and the second list is the destination nodes.
edges = [
    [1, 1, 1, 1, 0, 0, 2, 2, 3, 3, 4, 5, 6],
    [0, 2, 3, 6, 2, 3, 3, 4, 6, 7, 7, 7, 0],
]

# Convert to an undirected graph by adding reversed edges.
src, dst = edges
src, dst = src + dst, dst + src

# Prepare title features and initialize vector search engine.
titles = [paper["title"] for paper in node_data]
vectorizer = CountVectorizer()
paper_feats = vectorizer.fit_transform(titles).toarray()
vector_search_engine = VectorSearchEngine(paper_feats)

# Input query paper title and retrieve similar papers (anchors).
query_paper_title = "Vision Transformers for Traffic Sign Recognition"
query_vector = vectorizer.transform([query_paper_title]).toarray()
retrieved_indices = vector_search_engine.search(query_vector, k=3)[0][0]
anchors = [node_data[idx] for idx in retrieved_indices]

# Retrieve subgraph from anchors.
anchor_indices = [node_data.index(paper) for paper in anchors]
subgraph_nodes = retrieve(src, dst, anchor_indices)

# Construct prompt with the query title and relevant paper information.
relevant_paper_str = "\n".join(
    [f"Title: {node_data[node]['title']}, Classes: {node_data[node]['classes']}" for node in subgraph_nodes]
)
prompt = (
    "Given the paper title: '{}'\n\n"
    "And relevant paper information:\n{}\n\n"
    "List the classes that are most relevant to the query paper."
).format(query_paper_title, relevant_paper_str)
print("\n=== Prompt Sent to Model ===\n{}".format(prompt))

# Query the LLM to obtain paper classification output.
output = llm_utils.chat_openai(prompt, model="gpt-4o-mini")
print("\n=== RAG Paper Classification Output ===\n {}".format(output))
```

Output:
```
=== Prompt Sent to Model ===
Given the paper title: 'Vision Transformers for Traffic Sign Recognition'

And relevant paper information:
Title: Graph Neural Networks in Practice, Classes: ML, Graph
Title: Deep Learning for Graph Data, Classes: AI, ML
Title: Advanced Topics in Machine Learning, Classes: ML
Title: Computer Vision for Autonomous Vehicles, Classes: CV, AI, Robotics

List the classes that are most relevant to the query paper.

=== RAG Paper Classification Output ===
 The classes that are most relevant to the query paper 'Vision Transformers for Traffic Sign Recognition' are:

1. Computer Vision (CV)
2. Artificial Intelligence (AI)
3. Machine Learning (ML)

These classes are particularly relevant because traffic sign recognition is a task within the domain of computer vision and typically involves machine learning techniques, including advanced models like Vision Transformers.
```

## Demo

We recommend you to get started with some demo.

### Basic Operations

+ [RGL Dataset Loading](demo/demo_load_rgl_dataset.py)
+ [RGL Graph Retrieval](demo/demo_retrieval.py)

### Applications

+ [Abstract generation via RGL](demo/demo_rag_on_graph_abstract_generation.py)
+ [Paper classification via RGL](demo/demo_rag_on_graph_paper_classification.py)


### Applications with GUI

+ [Paper classification via RGL GUI](demo/demo_gui_rag_on_graph_paper_classification.py)

To run the GUI applications, first install Gradio:
```bash
pip install gradio
```




After running the demo, please visit http://127.0.0.1:7860 in your browser to access the interface.

![](figures/rgl_demo_gui0.png)




## Cite

```
@misc{li2025rglgraphcentricmodularframework,
      title={RGL: A Graph-Centric, Modular Framework for Efficient Retrieval-Augmented Generation on Graphs}, 
      author={Yuan Li and Jun Hu and Jiaxin Jiang and Zemin Liu and Bryan Hooi and Bingsheng He},
      year={2025},
      eprint={2503.19314},
      archivePrefix={arXiv},
      primaryClass={cs.IR},
      url={https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.19314}, 
}
```
